1. Platformer
   1. Yes
   2. Keyboard
   3. reaching the end goal
   4. Avoiding/attacking enemies, falling into bottomless pits
   5. Yes(HTML5 FILE)
   6. Attacking enemies or collecting items, and dying.
This would be a platform game where you reach from one starting point to the end. I want to build this game as it’s the first genre of video games I grew up with and is something I find very enjoyable. The interactions would be avoiding the enemies that would come across you. The win and lose conditions would be if you reach the end and losing if you fit on a pit/get attacked by the enemies before you reach the goal. 


1. Space Shooter (shooter)
1. Yes
2. Yes (Keyboard and mouse)
3. It has a Win condition
4. The game has a lose condition
5. Yes
6. Yes (game over and actions)
This game would be similar to asteroids or galaga where you must clear out the asteroids that are flying across the screen in order to win. This type of game requires a challenge/high skill due to how quickly the asteroids or enemies would show up on the screen. The interactions are using the arrow keys or mouse to fly around and avoiding the enemies on screen and blasting them as fast as possible. The win condition is when no more enemies appear on screen but the lose condition is if you get hit multiple times which eliminates all your health points. 


2. Brick Breaker (Action) yes 
        a.) Yes 
        b.) Yes and that is the bricks
        c.) Yes
        d.) Yes
e.) Yes
f.) Yes (breaking the blocks)


The game would have multiple blocks above your screen with a ball and moving platform and the goal would be to eliminate all the blocks until there is nothing left. This is a fun addicting game I remember playing so this would be fun to recreate as it is something a bit simple that allows me to focus on gameplay more. The interaction would be using the buttons or mouse to control the moving platform to have the ball bounce on it and continue to hit all of the bricks that are above. The win condition is clearing all the bricks on the stage while the lose condition is if the ball doesn’t bounce on your moving platform and falls on the ground which would lose a life in the game.